Building and reinforcing a sustainable remote work culture


Culture is the barometer of how well values are adhered to and reinforced in an organization. Therefore, culture can only be maintained if values are prescriptively articulated and visibly reinforced through elements such as discretionary bonuses and linking promotions to values.

In a colocated setting, culture is typically formed through tacit or implicit knowledge. In a healthy remote work environment, the building blocks of culture are documented transparently, making them accessible to everyone.

If you want to build a great culture, start with your company’s core values. You should be able to hand your values to someone who doesn’t work at your organization and they be so well-articulated that person would understand how to treat you and your colleagues. Ideally, your values are public so that others can contribute their own knowledge and experiences.

Why is company culture essential for remote work?
It takes intentionality to build a company culture in a company that has no offices. While technology and tools are enabling companies to operate efficiently in a remote setting, it’s important to focus on creating a great culture first, then using tools to support it.

“How do you build and sustain culture in a remote environment?” or “How does culture work remotely?” are questions we frequently hear at GitLab. In colocated settings, culture is often implied, built from how team members treat one another, what is rewarded, what is chided, and what is deemed acceptable during in-person interactions.

In colocated companies, it’s easy to let culture be shaped by office decor, the neighborhood in which a company’s headquarters is located, or the loudest voice in the room. Not only is this dangerous — one’s culture can oscillate based on external factors — but it’s not a usable strategy in a remote environment.

In a remote team, there’s no office vibe, hip coffee, or Spotify playlists that decide the culture, which is a gift. Instead, culture is written down. Culture is equal to the values you write down, and what you do as a leadership team to reinforce those values.

Reimagining the post-pandemic workforce
GitLab’s Remote Work Report sheds light on the current reality of remote work.

In 2021, we learned that 86% of respondents believe remote work is the future, and 62% of respondents said that they would consider leaving a co-located company for a remote role. Contrary to popular belief, we found that most remote workers aren’t digital nomads, and 52% are actually likely to travel less than their office working counterparts.

As leaders and team members were grappling with going remote, the pandemic forced many into quick adoption. The Remote Work Report provides insights on what matters to those who adopt remote work and charts a path for building culture around autonomy and flexibility.

Why inclusion matters more than ever
GitLab believes that combining many perspectives creates a more innovative environment to work in, with more satisfied teammates, leading to a better product and increased profitability. Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging is one of our company values.

Inclusion allows us to recognize, respect, and value differences in those around us. Being inclusive requires skills such as empathy, openness, and listening. Inclusion also means we are keenly aware of both positive and negative biases and how those biases impact our daily interactions, work, and employee retention.

Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging is fundamental to the success of GitLab as a remote organization. We include it in every way possible and in all that we do.

